Treasury Says China Is No Longer a Currency Manipulator

The Treasury Department removed China’s designation as
a currency manipulator just days before the United States 
and China sign a trade deal.

WASHINGTON — The Trump administration formally removed
China’s designation as a currency manipulator on Monday,
offering a major concession to the Chinese government as
senior officials arrived in Washington to sign a trade 
agreement with President Trump.

The Treasury Department released its long delayed currency
report on Monday afternoon, providing its first public 
analysis of China’s currency practices since it designated
China as a manipulator in August at the direction of Mr. Trump.
The report noted that China — which Mr. Trump accused of weakening
its currency to make its goods cheaper to sell overseas — had made
important commitments regarding the renminbi as part of the new
trade agreement and that its value has appreciated since September.

“China has made enforceable commitments to refrain from competitive
devaluation, while promoting transparency and accountability.” 
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement.

As part of the trade deal that Mr. Trump plans to sign on Wednesday,
China and the United States have agreed to avoid devaluing their 
currencies to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports. 
The United States trade representative said last month that the 
agreement would include a currency chapter that details “high-standard 
commitments to refrain from competitive devaluations” and targeting of 
exchange rates. The trade pact is expected to include an enforcement 
mechanism, which U.S.T.R. said would ensure that China cannot use its 
currency practices to compete unfairly against American exporters.

Mr. Trump has long been critical of China’s currency practices, 
arguing that Beijing weakens the renminbi to make Chinese exports 
cheaper in the United States. Mr. Trump accused China of doing 
just that in August, when Beijing allowed its currency to weaken, 
saying it was an attempt to blunt the impact of tariffs he imposed 
on Chinese imports.

It is a rare point of bipartisan agreement, with Democrats like 
Chuck Schumer, the New York Senator, and Republicans like Senator 
Rick Scott of Florida agreeing that China deserves to be labeled 
a currency manipulator.